=== oi01 Gallery

--- Installation Guide

The gallery contains two parts: server and client.



--- Server

1) Installation

The files in the server directory is dedicated for your webserver. Simply upload these files to your server and enter the URL in your browser.

An installation site is shown that lets you change some settings. After that the initialization process is executed including the following steps:

- Creating user/pass for the tools directory. It is used to update or reset the gallery.
- Removing further installation files to protect unauthorized resets

Finally a complete update of available galleries is done, creating thumbnails of the images and writing index and tag files.

In the end your new gallery is ready to visit.


2) Update and reset

Upload all of your new pictures into the directory "pics". Then start your browser and open the root path of the gallery with the addition "?update".

For this action you are asked to enter your user/pass written during the installation process. Then all index as well as tag files will be rebuilt,
all images are scanned and optionally resized.

Another addition is "?reset" which will also remove all present thumbnails.


3) Structure

Each gallery may have the file "gallery.conf" with attributes like whether it is hidden or which image shall be shown in the index.

Furthermore you can save a file called "info.txt". The text is shown in the info block above the images and can be used to say some words about it.


4) Restricted access

Social networks are not allowed to access the galleries by default. Depending on the purpose the settings can be changed in the .htaccess in the root directory.



--- Client

Required tool: ImageMagick > http://www.imagemagick.org

For now only a registry file for MS Windows is available. It contains entries to add new items in the context menu of the Windows File Explorer.

IMPORTANT: PLEASE CHECK THE REGISTRY FILE BEFORE EXECUTING!!

Unfortunately Picasa relinked the class "jpegfile", so the own Google class needs to be modified. Please check your system if this is also the case.

Now you have two new items in your context menu.

"oi01.de - Gallery: Add" adds a new command in a batch file of the selected images to execute the additional tool "imagemagick".
It resizes the pictures and adds the URL oi01.de in the lower right corner. Please feel free to modify the text for your purpose.

"oi01.de - Gallery: Exe" executes the current list of commands.
